RFC: 0192 Removal of the "constructs" compatibility layer (#195)
aws/aws-cdk-rfcs: text/0192-remove-constructs-compat.md

---
feature name: remove-constructs-compat
start date: 2020-07-05

> rfc pr: (leave this empty)

Author: ```suggestion
rfc pr: [#195](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk-rfcs/pull/195)
```

accept `constructs.Construct` instead of `core.Construct`.

This will provide the following benefits (enforced by an `awslint` rule):

1. The `import` statement for `import { Construct } from 'constructs'` would
   already exist which will reduce merge conflicts.
2. It will unlock composition of framework constructs into other domains (e.g.
   it will be possible to pass an AWS CDK L2 to a terraform stack).

Note that we will *not* change the base classes to `constructs.Construct`
because it is technically (and practically) a breaking API change (we must maintain
the invariant that "`s3.Bucket` is a `core.Construct`".

The remaining change in 2.x will be to update any base classes to use
`constructs.Construct` but this is actually not very prevalent in the framework
code because the majority of constructs actually extend `core.Resource`.

Alternatives considered:

- **Do nothing in 1.x**: will incur an ongoing maintenance cost of the 1.x -> 2.x
  merge conflicts.
- **Automatic merge resolution and import organization**: requires research and
  development, not necessarily worth it.

## 10-CONSTRUCT-NODE

> As we realize that we won't be able to release additional major versions of the
> "constructs" in order to ensure interoperability between domains is always
> possible, we need to closely examine the API of this library.

Author: ```suggestion
Since we won't be able to release additional major versions of the
"constructs" library (in order to ensure interoperability between domains is always
possible), we need to closely examine the API of this library.
```

In particular, the API of the `Construct` class, which is the base of all
constructs in all CDKs, should be as small as possible in order not to "pollute"
domain-specific APIs introduced in various domains.

In many cases (cdk8s, cdktf), constructs are *generated* on-demand from
domain-specific API specifications. In such cases, we need to ensure that the
API in `Construct` does not conflict with generated property names or methods.

The current API of `Construct` in the base class (2.x, 3.x) only includes a

> bunch of protected `onXxx` methods (`onPrepare`, `onValidate` and

Author: ```suggestion
few protected `onXxx` methods (`onPrepare`, `onValidate` and
```

`onSynthesize`). Those methods will be removed in 10.x
([prepare](#06-no-prepare) and [synthesize](#07-no-synthesize) are no longer
supported and [validate](#08-validation) will be supported through
`addValidation()`).

> In AWS CDK 1.x, to construct API, is available under `myConstruct.node`. This

Author: ```suggestion
In AWS CDK 1.x the construct API is available under `myConstruct.node`. This
```

> API has been intentionally removed from "constructs" 3.x in order to allow the

Author: ```suggestion
API has been intentionally removed when we extracted "constructs" from the AWS CDK in order to allow the
```

> API has been intentionally removed from "constructs" 3.x in order to allow the
> compatibility layer in AWS CDK 1.x to use property name and expose the shim
> type. The base library currently offers `Node.of(scope)` as an alternative - but
> this API is cumbersome to use and not discoverable. In evidence, in CDK for
> Terraform, they chose to offer
> [`constructNode`](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-cdk/blob/5becfbc699180adfe920dec794200bbf56dda0a7/packages/cdktf/lib/terraform-element.ts#L21)
> in `TerraformElement` as a sugar for `Node.of()`.

Author: ```suggestion
API has been intentionally removed when we extracted "constructs" from the AWS CDK
in order to allow the compatibility layer in AWS CDK 1.x to use the same property name
and expose the shim type (jsii does not allow changing the type of a property in a subclass). 

The base library currently offers `Node.of(scope)` as an alternative - but this API is cumbersome
to use and not discoverable. In evidence, in CDK for Terraform, they chose to offer [`constructNode`]
in `TerraformElement` as a sugar for `Node.of()`.

[`constructNode`]: https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-cdk/blob/5becfbc699180adfe920dec794200bbf56dda0a7/packages/cdktf/lib/terraform-element.ts#L21
```

[`constructNode`]: https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-cdk/blob/5becfbc699180adfe920dec794200bbf56dda0a7/packages/cdktf/lib/terraform-element.ts#L21

Another downside of `Node.of()` is that it means that the `IConstruct` interface
is now an empty interface, which is a very weak type in TypeScript due to
structural typing (it's structurally identical to `any`).

As we evaluate this use case for constructs 10.x, we would like to restore the
ability to access the construct API from a property of `Construct`, and use that
property as the single marker that represents a construct type (`IConstruct`).

To reduce the risk of naming conflicts (e.g. see [Terraform CDK
issue](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-cdk/pull/230)) between `node` and
domain-specific APIs, we propose to introduce this API under the name

> `construct` (of type `Node`).

Reviewer: So... let me summarize this: all classes that extend `Construct` will have a `construct` property that returns an instance of `Node`? I would naturally have expected `construct` to return an instance of `Construct` (basically, `this`), and the naming you're proposing strikes me as surprising and counter-intuitive.

Author: The property name should be considered in the context of its usage.

Do you find this counterintuitive:

```ts
bucket.construct.addDependency(role);
```

As oppose to:

```ts
bucket.node.addDependency(role);
```

I actually think the former is much more intuitively and reads much better.

We actually have a naming guideline that says that names should _not_ include the type name because it's redundant information in strongly typed environments.

Do you have an alternative suggestion?

Perhaps we can rename `Node` to something else?

Reviewer: As discussed... I don't feel *extremely* strong against this. It does feel counter-intuitive to me but I have no idea whether I'm representative of users or not in this respect.

For the record, I think `this.construct.addDependency(role)` reads **super good**, but for some reason the magic weakens when the receiver is not `this`.

Additionally, I cannot come up with a *better* suggestion for a name... so there's that, too.

Reviewer 2: I know it's a little late, but I don't agree with this rename.

I would expect a field called `construct` to point to an object that IS a Construct. I like what they did in TerraCDK, `constructNode` seems like a good compromise.

Author: The main reason we have this property is in order to group all the API of `Construct` under a single namespace so it won't "pollute" the APIs of subclasses, which are oftentimes generated classes in CDKs.

The conceptual mental model is that this is "the construct API". The fact that the type is `Node` is actually not in line with this mental model.

If I am looking at this from a usage point of view, I think `construct` makes more sense:

```ts
this.construct.id
this.construct.path
this.construct.addDependency(other)
this.construct.addMetadata
```

This is actually more natural then:

```ts
this.node.id
this.node.path
...
```

Additionally, we actually have a guideline *against* using the type name in symbol names because type information is an intrinsic part of the API (we prefer `handler: lambda.Function` over `handlerFunction: lambda.Function`).

I would rather rename the `Node` class (maybe `ConstructApi`) instead of renaming this property.

Reviewer 2: For the record, after some discussion I think I would have preferred for this member to be called `constructTree`, as this is the member that consumers use to access the features of the "construct tree" (which is a CDK concept that people are, or should be, familiar with which is distinct from the concept of a "construct").

We get things like:

```ts
// All perfectly natural
bucket.constructTree.findChild()
bucket.constructTree.removeChild()
bucket.constructTree.defaultChild
bucket.constructTree.findAll()
bucket.constructTree.children
bucket.constructTree.addWarning()

// Better than what we have now, this name emphasizes the tree traversal involved in these operations
bucket.constructTree.setContext()
bucket.constructTree.applyAspect()
bucket.constructTree.addDependency() 
 
// These now have not such great names, because they apply to the "current node" and don't really have
// strong tree-ish connotations. Don't think any of them are *horrible* but they are certainly not fantastic.
bucket.constructTree.id
bucket.constructTree.path
bucket.constructTree.uniqueId
```

Author: I don't think CDK users are required to understand the tree concept. In fact, we have traditionally tried to talk about "scopes" (I.e "the construct is created within the scope of another construct"). From a CS perspective this is indeed a tree, but I don't see how this adds much value to users.

As mentioned above, the primary reason for this property is to group all the construct APIs under an api namespace so they don't pollute or conflict the public api of subclasses, which is the primary programming pattern we use in CDKs.

Reviewer 2: There's a difference between not needing to know that there is a tree structure involved (until you do), and pretending that the tree structure doesn't exist by studiously avoiding calling it a tree.

You might be under the impression that my argument is one about purity of CS concepts. It is not. 

It is about acknowledging the fact that this structure exists, that it underpins the way the CDK works in a way which you can oftentimes ignore, but sometimes is quite relevant and requires people to understand it (see Stages, Stacks, Aspects, LogicalIDs, default children and escape hatches, see `tree.json` and the VSCode plugin, ...) and that there is a term available which accurately describes the semantics, expectations, and the sort of API that people can expect from this structure that they are already intimately familiar with from other programming tasks.

I think being vague and coy and pretending there is no tree when we all full well know that there is, or using the word "construct" to refer to two distinct concepts, is not going to help users form a mental model.

I'm also not saying they won't be able to. Given enough exposure and enough examples, over time people are going to eventually be trained to write the right code. In that sense, ultimately it doesn't even matter what it's called, be it `node`, `construct`, or `abc`, people will learn to cope. 

------

I think I've laid out my reasoning for why I think it's advantageous to call the beast by its name. It's completely fine if you disagree.

Author: Cool, thanks for the effort in explaining.

The plan is to introduce `construct` and deprecate `node` over the `1.x` branch in short order. This will give us some "bake time" of a few months until we completely remove `node` in 2.x. This will allow us to get feedback from users in case the mental model is confusing or insufficient.

Reviewer 3: Just stumbled upon this - thanks for making the effort of changing the name 👍

> 1. It signals that "this is the construct API" and more uniquely identifies with
>    it.
> 3. The chance for conflicts with domain-specific names is minimized.
> 3. We can introduce this API without breaking existing code while deprecating
>    `node` in the AWS CDK.

Author: ```suggestion
1. It's semantically signals that "this is the construct API".
2. The chance for conflicts with domain-specific names is low ("construct" is not prevalent).
3. We can introduce this API while deprecating `node` in AWS CDK 1.x.
```

> The main downside is that is is **a breaking change** in AWS CDK 2.x. There is
> likely quite a lot of code out there (a [few
> hundred](https://github.com/search?q=cdk+node.addDependency++extension%3Ats&type=Code&ref=advsearch&l=&l=)
> results for an approximated GitHub code search).

Author: ```suggestion
The main downside is that it is **a breaking change** in AWS CDK 2.x. There is
likely quite a lot of code out there (a [few
hundred](https://github.com/search?q=cdk+node.addDependency++extension%3Ats&type=Code&ref=advsearch&l=&l=)
results for an approximated GitHub code search).
```

---
feature name: remove-constructs-compat
start date: 2020-07-05
rfc pr: (leave this empty)
related issue: [#192](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk-rfcs/issues/192)
---

# Summary

As part of our effort to broaden the applicability of the CDK's programming
model to other domains such as [Kubernetes](https://cdk8s.io), we have extracted
the base `Construct` class (and a few related types) to an independent library
called [constructs](https://github.com/aws/constructs).

To preserve backwards compatibility in AWS CDK 1.x, a "compatibility layer"
([construct-compat.ts]) has been added to the AWS CDK. This layer served as an
API shim so that CDK code will continue to function without change.

As part [AWS CDK v2.0], we plan to remove this redundant layer and make some
improvements to a few APIs in "constructs" based on our learnings from CDK v1.x
and new projects such as CDK for Kubernetes.

This RFC describes the motivation, implications and plan for this project.

[AWS CDK v2.0]: https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk-rfcs/issues/156

> [construct-compat.ts]: https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/blob/master/packages/%40aws-cdk/core/lib/construct-compat.ts

Author: Fixed.

  - [Removal of "prepare"](#removal-of-prepare)
  - [Validation changes](#validation-changes)
  - [Stack trace settings](#stack-trace-settings)
  - [Info/warning/error message metadata key changes](#infowarningerror-message-metadata-key-changes)
- [Drawbacks](#drawbacks)
  - [User migration effort](#user-migration-effort)
  - [CDK codebase migration efforts](#cdk-codebase-migration-efforts)
  - [Staging of the 2.x fork](#staging-of-the-2x-fork)
- [Rationale and Alternatives](#rationale-and-alternatives)
  - [Alternatives considered](#alternatives-considered)
- [Adoption Strategy](#adoption-strategy)
- [Unresolved questions](#unresolved-questions)
- [Future Possibilities](#future-possibilities)
- [Implementation Plan](#implementation-plan)

# Release Notes

> This section "works backwards" from the v2.0 release notes in order to
> describe the user impact of this change.

**BREAKING CHANGE**

As part of CDK v2.0, all types related to the *constructs programming model*
have been removed from the AWS CDK and should be used directly from the
[constructs](https://github.com/aws/constructs) library.

For the majority of CDK libraries and apps, you will simply need to add

> `constructs@^4` to your `package.json` and replace:

Author: Rephrased to:

For most CDK libraries and apps, you will probably just need to add
`constructs@^4` to your `package.json` and replace:

```ts
import { Construct } from '@aws-cdk/core';
```

with:

```ts
import { Cosntruct } from 'constructs';
```

The following sections describe all the breaking changes related to this
project:

## Removal of base types

The following `@aws-cdk/core` types have stand-in replacements "constructs":

- The `@aws-cdk/core.Construct` class has been replaced with `constructs.Construct`
- The `@aws-cdk/core.IConstruct` type has been replaced with `constructs.IConstruct`
- The `@aws-cdk/core.ConstructOrder` class has been replaced with `constructs.ConstructOrder`
- The `@aws-cdk/core.ConstructNode` class has been replaced with `constructs.Node`

> - `Construct.isConstruct(x)` should be replaced with `x instanceof Construct`.

Author: I am not sure I agree given "constructs" must be used as a peer dependency, but I don't really mind restoring this.

Done.

## Changes in Aspects API

Aspects are not part of the "constructs" library, and therefore instead of
`construct.node.applyAspect(aspect)` use `Aspects.of(construct).apply(aspect)`.

To apply AWS tags to a scope, prefer `Tag.add(scope, name, value)`.

> > TODO: should we change to `Tags.of(scope).add(name, value)`?

Author: Yes I agree, `Tag.add` is the current API, as mentioned here we can consider changing to `Tags.of(x).add()`, but it's not a breaking change nor required for this migration at this point.

## Changes to IDependable implementation

The method `construct.node.addDependency(otherConstruct)` did not change, and it

> is likely the primary usage, and therefore most users won't be impacted.

Author: Rephrased:

The method `construct.node.addDependency(otherConstruct)` __did not change__,
which is likely the only API you are using related to construct dependencies.

If you need to implement `IDependable`, read on:

- The `@aws-cdk/core.IDependable` type has been replaced with `constructs.IDependable`
- The `@aws-cdk/core.DependencyTrait` class has been replaced with `constructs.Dependable`
- `@aws-cdk.core.DependencyTrait.get(x)` is now `constructs.Dependable.of(x)`

> - `construct.node.dependencies` is now **non-transitive** and returns only the dependencies added to the current node.

Author: Yes, the `dependencyGraph` thing should have all the goodies.

See https://github.com/awslabs/cdk8s/blob/master/packages/cdk8s/src/dependency.ts

> TODO: You can use `construct.node.dependencyGraph` to access a rich object

> > model for reflecting on the node's dependency graph.

Author: Will be adopted from https://github.com/awslabs/cdk8s/blob/master/packages/cdk8s/src/dependency.ts

## Stacks as root constructs

It is common in unit tests to use `Stack` as the root of the tree:

```ts
const stack = new Stack();
const myConstruct = new MyConstruct(stack, 'MyConstruct');
// make assertions
```

This is still a supported idiom, but in 2.x these root stacks will have an
implicit `App` parent. This means that `stack.node.scope` will be an `App`
instance, while previously it was `undefined`. The "root" stack will have a
construct ID of `Stack` (unless otherwise specified).

This has implications on the value of `construct.node.path` (it will be prefixed
with `Stack/`) and the value of `construct.node.uniqueId` (and any derivatives
of these two).

This means that as you migrate to v2.x, some unit tests may need to be updated
to reflect this change.

## Stack traces no longer attached to metadata by default

> For performance reasons, the `construct.addMetadata()` method will *not* attach

Author: Fixed.

at the application scope (in the AWS CDK, this is the `Stage`/`App`).

To that end, one of the major changes of v2.x is removal of support for the
`prepare()` and `synthesize()` hooks. In most cases, an alternative solution is
easy to come by.

> TODO: create a github issue for consultation around this topic

### Prepare

The **prepare** hook (`construct.onPrepare()` and `construct.prepare()`) is no
longer supported as it can be abused easily and cause construct tree corruption.

The `ConstructNode.prepare(node)` method no longer exists. To prepare an app or
a stage, simply call `app.synth()` or `stage.synth()`.

To obtain the top-level app stage from any construct, you can use:

```ts
const stage = Stage.of(construct);
stage.synth();
```

Consider a design where you mutate the tree in-band (preferable), or use `Lazy`
values or Aspects if appropriate.

### Synthesis

The **synthesis** hook (`construct.onSynthesize()` and `construct.synthesize()`)
is no longer supported. Synthesis is now implemented only at the app level.

The `ConstructNode.synthesize(node)` method no longer exists. To prepare an app
or a stage, simply call `app.synth()` or `stage.synth()`.

> To write files into the cloud assembly directory, use `Stage.of(this).outdir`.

Author: ok, revised phrasing.

> To write files into the cloud assembly directory, use `Stage.of(this).outdir`.

Author: Also added a link to a GitHub issue for additional guidance.

### Validation

Validation is still supported, but instead of a protected base class method it

> is defined through an interface called `constructs.IValidation`.

Author: Yes, but that's a stupid name. I think `IValidation` is ok.

Practically this means that if you wish to implement validation for a custom
construct, implement the `IValidation` interface and change your `validate`

> method from `protected` to `public`.

Author: Yes, good catch. added.

`@aws-cdk/core.Construct` | `constructs.Construct`
`@aws-cdk/core.IConstruct` | `constructs.IConstruct`
`@aws-cdk/core.ConstructOrder` | `constructs.ConstructOrder`
`@aws-cdk/core.ConstructNode` | `constructs.Node`
`Construct.isConstruct(x)` | `x instanceof Construct`
`construct.node.applyAspect(aspect)` | `Aspects.of(construct).apply(aspect)`
`@aws-cdk/core.IDependable` | `constructs.IDependable`
`@aws-cdk/core.DependencyTrait` | `constructs.Dependable`
`@aws-cdk.core.DependencyTrait.get(x)` | `constructs.Dependable.of(x)`
`construct.node.dependencies` | Is now non-transitive
`construct.addMetadata()` | Stack trace not attached by default
`ConstructNode.prepare(node)`, `onPrepare()`, `prepare()` | Not supported
`ConstructNode.synthesize(node)`, `onSynthesize()`, `synthesize()` | Not supported
`construct.onValidate()`, `construct.validate()` hooks | Implement `constructs.IValidation`
`ConstructNode.validate(node)` | `construct.node.validate()`

# Motivation

There are various motivations for this change:

1. Removal of a redundant layer
2. User confusion caused by multiple `Construct` types
3. Inability to compose AWS CDK constructs into other domains

> 4. Non-intuitive dependency requirement on `constructs`

Author: Not really, #4 is about the fact that regardless of whether you are using `constructs.Construct` or a subclass thereof, you will always need a dependency on "constructs". If you use a subclass (i.e. you never reference `Construct` explicitly), requiring a dependency feels weird.

> 4. Non-intuitive dependency requirement on `constructs`

Author: Resolving unless. @RomainMuller unresolve if you are not satisfied

### 1. Redundant layer

The current compatibility layer does not have any logic in it. It is pure glue
introduced in order to avoid breaking v1.x users. As we release v2.0 we are able
to clean up this layer, and with it, improve maintainability and code hygiene.

### 2. Multiple `Construct` types

The current situation is error-prone since we have two `Construct` classes in
the type closure. For example, when a developer types `"Construct"` and uses
VSCode to _automatically add import statements_, the IDE will actually add an
import for `constructs.Construct`, which is _not_ the type they need. Using the

> wrong type will fail during compilation (similar error as above).

Author: Cleaned this up.

### 3. Composability with other domains

The main motivation for this change is to enable composition of AWS CDK
constructs with constructs from other domains.

It is currently impossible to define AWS CDK constructs within a non-AWS-CDK
construct scope.

For example, consider the
[Terrastack](https://github.com/TerraStackIO/terrastack) project or a similar
one, which uses CDK constructs to define stacks through Terraform. Say we want to
use an AWS CDK L2 inside a Terraform stack construct:

```ts
const stack = new terrastack.Stack(...);

// COMPILATION ERROR: `this` is not a `cdk.Construct`.

> new s3.Bucket(this, 'my-bucket');

Author: > Have we considered properly defining the constructs.IConstruct interface

What do you mean by properly defining it?

> using that as the type of the scope argument

I have considered it but I think it will increase the cognitive load in defining custom constructs (which is very important to keep low) and is also potentially error prone (i.e. if I *didn't* define the interface, it would still work but it will limit composability).

I rather keep the current model in which implementing a custom construct is just `extend Construct` + `scope: Construct`.

> avoid having to take a peerDependency on constructs?

The peer dependency is required because `construct.Construct` is used as a base class and therefore it's public API is by definition part of the public API of any derived classes.

> new s3.Bucket(this, 'my-bucket');

Reviewer 4: 👍

```

Being able to create construct compositions from multiple domains is a powerful
direction for the CDK ecosystem, and this change is required in order to enable
these use case.

### 4. Non-intuitive dependency requirement

> As we transition to

Author: Today `constructs` is also defined as a normal dependency. As part of our change in mono-cdk, we will stop taking a normal dependency on it.

> As we transition to

Author: added a clarification

[monolithic packaging]
as part of v2.x, CDK users will have to take a _peer dependency_ on both the CDK

> library (`aws-cdk-lib`) and `constructs`.

Author: We can reopen this discussion as part of the v2.0 RFC (#79). Not related to this RFC though I believe.

> The reason `constructs` will also be required (whether leave the compatibility

Author: Fixed.

# Design

This section analysis the required changes and discusses the implementation
approach and alternatives.

This design is based on this [proof of concept](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/pull/8962).

## Removal of the base types (`cdk.Construct`, `cdk.IConstruct`, ...)

Once `construct-compat.ts` is removed from `@aws-cdk/core`, all CDK code (both
the framework itself and user code) would need to be changed to use the types
from `constructs`.

Since the APIs are similar in almost all cases, this is a simple mechanical
change as shown in the [release notes](#release-notes).

The main concern for the CDK codebase is maintaining this change alongside a 1.x
branch until we switch over to 2.x. Since this change includes modifications to
all `import` sections in almost all of our files, merge conflicts are imminent.

Possible solutions:
1. Take the hit and resolve the conflicts manually every time. These are
   mechanical fixes and easy to do.
2. Add some automation using eslint to fix these merge conflicts.
3. Perform the change on the 1.x codebase such that the soon-to-be-moved types
   are imported separately from other types of `@aws-cdk/core`. This will

>    violate an eslint rule, but we can disable it for the time being.

Author: sure, will add the name at some point

Version 4.x of the `constructs` library does not contain a lifecycle hook for
synthesis.

### Motivation

The reason this is not available at the base class is because the abstraction
did not "hold water" as the AWS CDK evolved and new CDKs emerged.  In the AWS
CDK, we eventually ended up with a centralized synthesis logic at the
`Stage`-level ([TODO: ref]). The main reason was that we needed to "break" the
recursion in various domain-specific points (e.g. stages, nested stacks) which
meant that the generic logic of "traverse the entire tree and call `synthesize`"
did not hold. In `cdk8s`, the support for [TODO: chart dependencies] required
that the name of the output manifest will be determined based on the topologic
order at the app level. Here again, the generic approach failed.

In leu of those failures, we decided that there is no additional value in
actually offering a synthesis mechanism at the `constructs` level. Each
CDK-domain implements synthesis at the "right" level. This does not mean that
specific domains can't offer a decentralized approach (i.e. call a method called
"synthesize" on all constructs in the tree), it just means that this is not

> provided at the base `Construct` class.

Reviewer: Conceptually okay with this, but I would love `constructs` to provide documentation on how to "properly" to that. In the current state of things, it's a little hand-wavy.

Author: I agree that this should be discussed in the docs for `constructs`.

### Implications on CDK code base

In the AWS CDK itself, `synthesize()` was used in three locations:

1. `Stack` - creates a CFN template and adds itself to the cloud assembly manifest.
2. `AssetStaging` - stages an asset into the cloud assembly.
3. `TreeMetadata` - creates `tree.json` with information about the construct tree.

For `Stack` and `TreeMetadata`, we will convert the generic `synthesize()`
method to `_synthesizeTemplate()` and `_synthesizeTree()` and will call them
from the centralized synthesis function.

The `AssetStaging` construct does not really need to wait until synthesis in
order to stage the asset. In fact, all the information required already exists
during initialization. The only missing information is the cloud assembly output
directory, and this information is actually known during initialization (we know
this as soon as the CDK app is created). Therefore, the solution for
`AssetStaging` is to move the staging logic to the constructor and use

> `Stage.of(this).outdir` to find the output directory of the current stage.

Reviewer: I wish we capitalized that `D` (`outDir`)

Author: We already use this capitalization in `CloudAssemblyBuilder` and I don't see this warrants a breaking change at this point.

### Implications on end-users

Participation in synthesis is an "advanced" feature of the CDK framework and se
assume most end-users don't use this directly.

If they need "last minute processing", they would likely use `prepare()` (which
is also being [TODO: removed]) but not `synthesize()`.

The use case of emitting arbitrary files into the cloud assembly directory is
weak. The cloud assembly is a well-defined format, and is currently "closed".
There are no extension points that tools can identify. To that end, just writing
files to the cloud assembly output directory does not make tons of sense. Having

> said that, it is still possible to do in the same way we plan for

Author: What do you mean? Example?

> said that, it is still possible to do in the same way we plan for

Reviewer 4: Yes. How would I write something to the assembly directory in case i need the full constructed tree? for example the dependency graph, or maybe just a serialization of a sub-tree. (Just wild ideas, I don't really have an explicit use case..)

determined later (in the `expect` call).

One alternative would be to simply modify these unit tests so that stacks are no
longer used as roots (basically add `new App()` as the scope). This approach
would require a change in many unit tests across the code base with no clear
value to users.

We propose to modify the `Stack` construct such that if a stack is created
without an explicit `scope`, an `App` instance will automatically be created and
used as it's scope.

```ts
const stack = new Stack();
assert(stack.node.scope instanceof App); // previously it was `undefined`
```

Since only the root construct may have an empty ID, we will also need to assign
an ID. We propose to use `"Stack"` since we already have fallback logic that
uses this as the stack name when the stack does not have an ID (see [TODO]).

This change will allow us to remove any special casing we have for stacks in the
testing framework and throughout the synthesis code path (we have quite a lot of
that), because we will be able to assume that `Stage.of(construct.node.root)` is
never `undefined` and has a `synth()` method which returns a cloud assembly.

> Since unit tests sometimes use "incremental tests" for synthesized templates,

Author: added

and `stage.synth()` would reuse the synthesized output if called twice, we will

> also need to introduce a `stage.synth({ forceResynth: true })` option. This will

Reviewer: I think `{ force: true }` conveys the meaning already. I don't really love the aesthetics of `Resynth`.

Reviewer 4: As opposed to the "default App" proposed earlier, which also has some benefits for our users, it doesn't feel right to enable this solely due to testing considerations. Are we ready for users to start using this? possibly abusively? 

What would be the effort of changing the tests to not need this?

Author: okay, I will change

> be the default behavior when using `expect(stack)` or `SynthUtils.synth()`.

Reviewer: Not clear why. If I `expect(stack)` multiple times on the same stack, I most likely don't expect it to be synthesized over and over again.

For `SynthUtils.synt()` I'd say it likely makes sense (since in this case, the user clearly expressed they intention to synthesize).

Author: This is the current behavior (re-synth) and I rather try to avoid breaking additional tests. It's mainly a performance optimization.

The main side effect of this change is that construct paths in unit tests will
now change. In the above example, `foo.node.path` will change from `MyFoo` to
`Stack/MyFoo`. Additionally, tests for resources that utilized `node.uniqueId`
to generate names will also change given `uniqueId` is based on the path.

Since app-less stacks are only used during tests, this should not have
implications on production code, but it does break some of our test suite.

### Should we do this on 1.x?

In order to reduce [merge conflicts](#repository-migration-efforts) between 1.x
and 2.x we propose to introduce this change on the 1.x branch prior to forking
off 2.x.

However, this could be perceived as a breaking change by end-users since
`node.path` and `node.uniqueId`, and their derivatives, will change for trees
rooted by a `Stack` and unit tests will need to be updated.

Therefore we propose to introduce this change as a feature flag over the 1.x codebase and enable it in our unit tests (I don't believe we have a way to enable feature flags for all unit tests, but we can devise one).

> This will allow us to update our tests in 1.x and avoid the merge conflicts

Reviewer 4: 👍

forking on 2.x

----

constructs 4.x:

- [x] Migrate to projen
- [x] Branch to 4.x and release as @next

> - [x] Reintroduce `c.node` instead of `Node.of(c)`

Reviewer: I kinda liked `Node.of(c)` because it keeps the API of `Construct`/`IConstruct` super clean. However I don't really love how `IConstruct` is just a marker interface and it has no bearing in how `Node.of(IConstruct)` achieves getting the `Node` from there (which makes it unsafe).

Author: Exactly, and that's why I am reintroducing `IConstruct.node` so it's not a marker interface anymore. Also, not having `this.node` as a way to access the node is going to break _a lot_ of CDK code.

- [x] Removal of `onPrepare` and `onSynthesize` and all synthesis-related code.
- [x] Reintroduce dependencies
- [x] Change `node.dependencies` to return the list of node dependency (non recursive) and add `node.depgraph` which returns a `Graph` object from cdk8s.
- [x] Stack trace control

CDK changes:

- [x] cfn2ts
- [ ] Consider aliasing in TypeScript to reduce potential merge conflicts.

> - [ ] Require `app` when defining a `Stack`.

Reviewer 4: What do you mean? Didn't we say an app will be implicitly created?

Author: yes, old list

The first two use cases have already been addressed by centralizing the "prepare" logic at the stage level (into [prepare-app.ts](TODO)).

The 3rd item can be addressed using `Lazy` tokens (see
[example](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/pull/8962/files#diff-51d435d71a31c2607f923fc4d96cac56R140)),
and will be addressed on 1.x prior to the 2.x fork.

## Validation changes

Since construct validation is quite rare, in constructs 4.x, the `validate()` protected method was removed to clean up the namespace. The alternative is to implement an interface `IValidation` with a similar method.

The breaking change is that users who implemented `validate()` would need to
implement `IValidation` and change their `validate()` method from `protected` to
`public`.

## Stack trace settings

Since stack traces are not attached to metadata entries by default in constructs
4.x, we will need to pass `stackTrace: true` for `CfnResource`s. This will
preserve the deploy-time stack traces which are very important for users.

Other metadata entries will not get stack traces by default, and that's a
reasonable change.

When stack traces are disabled (either through the CDK context or through

> `CDK_STACK_TRACE_DISABLE`), we will need to set the appropriate context key in

Reviewer: I wish we had made this also available as a CLI flag, but then I'd have wanted this to look like `--[no-]stack-taces`, which I believe would have made the "default" ENV for it `CDK_STACK_TRACES=0|1`

Author: See https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/issues/8792

Assigned to @shivlaks

`App` so that this will propagate to "constructs".

## Info/warning/error message metadata key changes

The construct metadata keys for `addInfo()`, `addWarning()` and `addError()` are
`aws:cdk:info`, etc. These are not the keys used by default in "constructs"
since the library is not part of the AWS CDK.

> To address this, the "constructs" library allows customizing these keys through a settings module. We will need to add that configuration to the `App` level so this behavior will be preserved.

Reviewer 4: Makes sense. And addresses https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk-rfcs/pull/195#issuecomment-656611597

Author: I actually decided that I agree with you that `addWarning/error/...` should not be part of `constructs` and moved them to `Logging.of(x).addWarning(msg)`.

We recommend the first approach.

# Drawbacks

## User migration effort

The main drawback from users' point of view is the introduction of the
aforementioned breaking changes as part of the transition to CDK 2.0. As
mentioned above, for the majority of users, the migration will be trivial and
mechanical (import from "constructs" instead of "@aws-cdk/core").

The removal of the "prepare" and "synthesize" hooks may require users to rethink
their design in very advanced scenarios. We will create a GitHub issue to
consult users on alternative designs.

## CDK codebase migration efforts

The AWS CDK codebase itself utilizes all of these APIs, and the migration effort
is quite substantial.

Having said that, the majority of this work is already complete and a branch is
being maintained with these changes as a pre-cursor to the v2.x fork.

## Staging of the 2.x fork

Since this change involves modifications to the CDK's source code, it may cause
merge conflicts as during the period in which we need to forward-port or
back-port code between the v1.x branch and the v2.x branches.

The key would be to continuously merge between the branches.

# Rationale and Alternatives

> As a general rule, software layers which do not provider value to users should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a general rule, software layers which do not provide value to users should
```

Author: Fixed

maintaining backwards compatibility within the v1.x version line while we
extract `constructs` into an independent library.

Redundant layers are expensive to maintain and are prone to idiosyncrasies as
they evolve over time (for example, a CDK engineer may be tempted to add an
AWS-specific feature in this layer, making it harder to clean up later).

If we consider the various [reasons](#drawbacks) not to take this change, the
main reason would be to simplify the [migration for users from 1.x to
2.x](#user-migration-effort). The major version 2.x is already required to
introduce monolithic packaging, and this change, for most users, is likely to be
trivial (see [above](#breaking-changes)). Therefore, we believe this is probably
not the correct motivation to reject this proposal.

The [repository migration](#repository-migration-efforts) efforts and
[co-existence of 2.x/1.x](#co-existence-of-2x1x) are both one-off costs this
proposal suggests ways to reduce the chance for merge conflicts across these
branches.

## Alternatives considered

At a high-level, we may consider to postpone this change to v3.x or to never

> take it, leaving this compatibility layer in place for eternity.

Reviewer: ... and eternity gets pretty long towards the end :)

Author: :-)

one, which uses CDK constructs to define stacks through Terraform. Say we want to
use an AWS CDK L2 inside a Terraform stack construct:

```ts
const stack = new terrastack.Stack(...);

// COMPILATION ERROR: `this` is not a `cdk.Construct`.
new s3.Bucket(this, 'my-bucket');
```

Being able to create construct compositions from multiple domains is a powerful
direction for the CDK ecosystem, and this change is required in order to enable
these use case.

## 4. Non-intuitive dependency requirement

As we transition to [monolithic packaging] as part of v2.x, CDK users will have
to take a _peer dependency_ on both the CDK library (`aws-cdk-lib`) and
`constructs`.

> Currently, the AWS CDK also takes `constructs` as a normal dependency (similar
> to all dependencies), but this is about to change with mono-cdk.

The reason `constructs` will also be required (whether we leave the
compatibility layer or not) is due to the fact that all CDK constructs
eventually extend the base `constructs.Construct` class. This means that this
type is part of their public API and therefore a peer dependency is required
(otherwise, there could be incompatible copies of `Construct` in the node

> runtime).

Author: yes, I'll clarify

> runtime).

Author: done

## 02-ASPECTS

Aspects are actually a form of "prepare" and as such, if they mutate the tree,
their execution order becomes critical and extremely hard to get right. To that
end, we decided to remove them from the `constructs` library as they pose a risk
to the programming model.

However, we are aware that aspects are used in by AWS CDK apps and even 3rd
party libraries such as [cdk-watchful](https://github.com/eladb/cdk-watchful).

Therefore, we propose to continue to support aspects in 2.x, with the goal of
rethinking this programming model for a future major version. One future
direction is to turn aspects into "reactive" so that they subscribe to tree
events and react in-band during initialization, and not as a separate phase.

Since aspects are no longer part of the base programming model, we need a way to
apply aspects to scopes for AWS CDK apps. To do that, we propose to use the
"trait" pattern, which is becoming a common idiom for offering APIs over CDK
scopes:

```ts
Aspects.of(scope).apply(aspect);
```

The major downside of this change is discoverability, but
`construct.node.applyAspect` is not necessarily more discoverable. We will make

> sure documentation is clear.

Author: I like `.add()`. Good call.

> sure documentation is clear.

Author: Changed.

assert(stack.node.scope instanceof App); // previously it was `undefined`
```

Since only the root construct may have an empty ID, we will also need to assign
an ID. We propose to use `"Stack"` since we already have fallback logic that
uses this as the stack name when the stack does not have an ID (see [stack.ts](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/blob/8c0142030dce359591aa76fe314f19fce9eddbe6/packages/%40aws-cdk/core/lib/stack.ts#L920)).

This change will allow us to remove any special casing we have for stacks in the
testing framework and throughout the synthesis code path (we have quite a lot of
that), because we will be able to assume that `Stage.of(construct.node.root)` is
never `undefined` and has a `synth()` method which returns a cloud assembly.

Unit tests sometimes use "incremental tests" for synthesized templates. For
example:

```ts
const stack = new Stack();
const c1 = new MyConstruct(stack, 'c1', { foos: [ 'bar' ] });
expect(stack).toHaveResource('AWS::Resource', {
  Foos: [ 'bar' ]
});

// now add a "foo" and verify that the synthesized template contains two items
c1.addFoo('baz');
expect(stack).toHaveResource('AWS::Resource', {
  Foos: [ 'bar', 'baz' ]
});
```

> Since `stage.synth()` (which is called by `expect(stack)`) would reuse the

Reviewer 5: Why is that true? I assume it does no happen today since we call `stack.synth()`?

Author: Yes, the current implementation has a special-case for trees with stacks as roots.

using `expect(stack)` or `SynthUtils.synth()`.

The main side effect of this change is that construct paths in unit tests will
now change. In the above example, `foo.node.path` will change from `MyFoo` to
`Stack/MyFoo`. Additionally, tests for resources that utilized `node.uniqueId`
to generate names will also change given `uniqueId` is based on the path.

Since app-less stacks are only used during tests, this should not have
implications on production code, but it does break some of our test suite.

### What can we do on 1.x?

In order to reduce [merge conflicts](#repository-migration-efforts) between 1.x
and 2.x we considered introducing this change on the 1.x branch prior to forking
off 2.x.

However, this is technically a breaking (behavioral) change for end-users since
`node.path` and `node.uniqueId`, and their derivatives, will change for trees
rooted by a `Stack`, and unit tests will need to be updated.

Therefore we propose to introduce this change as a feature flag over the 1.x
codebase and migrate all of our unit tests (I don't believe we have a way to
enable feature flags for all unit tests, but we can devise one).

> 

Reviewer 5: can we mitigate this inside the `match`/`haveResourceLike`  implementations? ignoring the `Stack` prefix?

Author: I found a way to work around this breaking change so it's not breaking any more ("relocate").

In the AWS CDK itself, `synthesize()` was used in three locations:

1. `Stack` - creates a CFN template and adds itself to the cloud assembly manifest.
2. `AssetStaging` - stages an asset into the cloud assembly.
3. `TreeMetadata` - creates `tree.json` with information about the construct tree.

For `Stack` and `TreeMetadata`, we will convert the generic `synthesize()`
method to `_synthesizeTemplate()` and `_synthesizeTree()` and will call them
from the centralized synthesis function.

The `AssetStaging` construct does not really need to wait until synthesis in
order to stage the asset. In fact, all the information required already exists
during initialization. The only missing information is the cloud assembly output
directory, and this information is actually known during initialization (we know
this as soon as the CDK app is created). Therefore, the solution for
`AssetStaging` is to move the staging logic to the constructor and use
`Stage.of(this).outdir` to find the output directory of the current stage.

### Implications on end-users

Participation in synthesis is an "advanced" feature of the CDK framework and se
assume most end-users don't use this directly.

> If they need "last minute processing", they would likely use `prepare()` (which

Reviewer 5: What about a third party construct that requires "last minute changes", the construct vendors does not have access to the `App` (as the construct in created in a consumer application), how will they preform these changes?

Author: They can use aspects.

Author: Added.

  - [2. Multiple `Construct` types](#2-multiple-construct-types)
  - [3. Composability with other domains](#3-composability-with-other-domains)
  - [4. Non-intuitive dependency requirement](#4-non-intuitive-dependency-requirement)
- [Design](#design)
  - [01-BASE-TYPES](#01-base-types)
  - [02-ASPECTS](#02-aspects)
  - [03-DEPENDABLE](#03-dependable)
  - [04-STACK-ROOT](#04-stack-root)
  - [05-METADATA-TRACES](#05-metadata-traces)
  - [06-NO-PREPARE](#06-no-prepare)
  - [07-NO-SYNTHESIZE](#07-no-synthesize)
  - [08-VALIDATION](#08-validation)
  - [09-LOGGING](#09-logging)
- [Drawbacks](#drawbacks)
  - [User migration effort](#user-migration-effort)
  - [CDK codebase migration efforts](#cdk-codebase-migration-efforts)
  - [Staging of the 2.x fork](#staging-of-the-2x-fork)
- [Rationale and Alternatives](#rationale-and-alternatives)
  - [Alternatives considered](#alternatives-considered)
- [Adoption Strategy](#adoption-strategy)
- [Unresolved questions](#unresolved-questions)
- [Future Possibilities](#future-possibilities)
- [Implementation Plan](#implementation-plan)
  - [Preparation of 1.x](#preparation-of-1x)
  - [constructs 4.x](#constructs-4x)
  - [2.x Work](#2x-work)

> # Release Notes

Reviewer 6: What about the developer guide, and our documentation.

We should include a section in this RFC (or maybe in the one for v2) on how that is going to look when both v1 and v2 are present, just to make sure we don't forget about it.

Author: added tasks

> This section "works backwards" from the v2.0 release notes in order to
> describe the user impact of this change.

**BREAKING CHANGE**: As part of CDK v2.0, all types related to the *constructs
programming model* have been removed from the AWS CDK and should be used
directly from the [constructs](https://github.com/aws/constructs) library.

For most CDK libraries and apps, you will likely just need change this:

```ts
import { Construct } from '@aws-cdk/core';
```

With this:

```ts

> import { Cosntruct } from 'constructs';

Author: Fixed

```

The following table summarizes the API changes between 1.x and 2.x:

1.x|2.x
------|-----
`@aws-cdk/*` | `aws-cdk-lib` and `constructs@^4`
`import { Construct } from '@aws-cdk/core'` | `import { Construct } from 'constructs'`
`@aws-cdk/core.Construct` | `constructs.Construct`
`@aws-cdk/core.IConstruct` | `constructs.IConstruct`
`@aws-cdk/core.ConstructOrder` | `constructs.ConstructOrder`
`@aws-cdk/core.ConstructNode` | `constructs.Node`
`Construct.isConstruct(x)` | `x instanceof Construct`
`construct.node.applyAspect(aspect)` | `Aspects.of(construct).apply(aspect)`
`@aws-cdk/core.IDependable` | `constructs.IDependable`
`@aws-cdk/core.DependencyTrait` | `constructs.Dependable`
`@aws-cdk.core.DependencyTrait.get(x)` | `constructs.Dependable.of(x)`
`construct.node.dependencies` | Is now non-transitive
`construct.addMetadata()` | Stack trace not attached by default
`ConstructNode.prepare(node)`, `onPrepare()`, `prepare()` | Not supported

> `ConstructNode.synthesize(node)`, `onSynthesize()`, `synthesize()` | Not supported

Author: Ok added.

`construct.onValidate()`, `construct.validate()` hooks | Implement `constructs.IValidation` and call `node.addValidation()`
`ConstructNode.validate(node)` | `construct.node.validate()`

The following sections describe all the related breaking changes and details
migration strategies for each change.

## 01-BASE-TYPES: Removal of base types

> The following `@aws-cdk/core` types have stand-in replacements in `constructs`:

Author: The ones listed in this section all have stand-in replacements

- `construct.node.dependencies` is now **non-transitive** and returns only the
  dependencies added to the current node.

The method `construct.node.addDependency(otherConstruct)` __did not change__ and
can be used as before.

> You can use the new `construct.node.dependencyGraph`  to access a rich object
> model for reflecting on the node's dependency graph.

See [examples](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/pull/9056/commits/e4dff913d486592b1899182e9a928765553654fa).

## 04-STACK-ROOT: Stacks as root constructs

It is common in unit tests to use `Stack` as the root of the tree:

```ts
const stack = new Stack();
const myConstruct = new MyConstruct(stack, 'MyConstruct');
// make assertions
```

This is still a supported idiom, but in 2.x these root stacks will have an
implicit `App` parent. This means that `stack.node.scope` will be an `App`
instance, while previously it was `undefined`. The "root" stack will have a
construct ID of `Stack` unless otherwise specified.

> Technically, this change should have resulted in the `node.path` and
> `node.uniqueId` of all constructs defined within such trees to change, but we

> > are utilizing `node.relicate()` to maintain the current behavior.

Author: fixed

> ## 05-METADATA-TRACES: Stack traces no longer attached to metadata by default

Author: This is the new phrasing:

For performance reasons, the `construct.node.addMetadata()` method will *not*
attach stack traces to metadata entries. Stack traces will still be associated
with all `CfnResource` constructs and can also be added to custom metadata using
the `stackTrace` option:

If your use case for overriding `synthesize()` was to emit files into the cloud
assembly directory, you can now find the current cloud assembly output directory
during initialization using `Stage.of(this).outdir`.

See [examples](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/pull/9056/commits/02b45b50c27fffae1bfbc4f61f6adc1f8fd92672).

The `ConstructNode.synthesize(node)` method no longer exists. However, since now
`Stage.of(scope)` is always defined and returns the enclosing stage/app, you
can can synthesize a construct node through `Stage.of(scope).synth()`.

For additional questions/guidance on how to implement your use case without this
hook, please post a comment on [this GitHub issue](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/issues/8909).

## 08-VALIDATION: The `validate()` hook is now `node.addValidation()`

To add validation logic to a construct, use `construct.node.addValidation()`
method instead of overriding a protected `validate()` method:

Before:

```ts
class MyConstruct extends Construct {
  protected validate(): string[] {
    return [ 'validation-error' ];
  }
}
```

After:

```ts
class MyConstruct extends Construct {
  constructor(scope: Construct, id: string) {
    super(scope, id);

>     this.node.addValidation({ validate: () => [ 'validation-error' ] });

Author: That's not a predicate. A predicate usually returns `true/false`. This guy returns a list of error messages.

introduced in order to avoid breaking v1.x users. As we release v2.0 we are able
to clean up this layer, and with it, improve maintainability and code hygiene.

## 2. Multiple `Construct` types

The current situation is error-prone since we have two `Construct` classes in
the type closure. For example, when a developer types `"Construct"` and uses
VSCode to _automatically add import statements_, the IDE will actually add an
import for `constructs.Construct`. If they define a custom construct class which
extends this type instead of the `core.Construct` type, it won't be possible to
pass an instance of this class as a scope to AWS CDK constructs such as `Stack`
for example.

## 3. Composability with other domains

The main motivation for this change is to enable composition of AWS CDK
constructs with constructs from other domains.

It is currently impossible to define AWS CDK constructs within a non-AWS-CDK
construct scope.

For example, consider the
[Terrastack](https://github.com/TerraStackIO/terrastack) project or a similar
one, which uses CDK constructs to define stacks through Terraform. Say we want to

> use an AWS CDK L2 inside a Terraform stack construct:

Author: Yes, we will need to implement a mapping layer that will map CFN resources to TF resources. We are working with HashiCorp to define what this looks like. Nevertheless, the construct composition is required.

```ts
const stack = new terrastack.Stack(...);

// COMPILATION ERROR: `this` is not a `cdk.Construct`.
new s3.Bucket(this, 'my-bucket');
```

Being able to create construct compositions from multiple domains is a powerful
direction for the CDK ecosystem, and this change is required in order to enable
these use case.

## 4. Non-intuitive dependency requirement

As we transition to [monolithic packaging] as part of v2.x, CDK users will have
to take a _peer dependency_ on both the CDK library (`aws-cdk-lib`) and
`constructs`.

> Currently, the AWS CDK also takes `constructs` as a normal dependency (similar
> to all dependencies), but this is about to change with mono-cdk.

The reason `constructs` will also be required (whether we leave the
compatibility layer or not) is due to the fact that all CDK constructs
eventually extend the base `constructs.Construct` class. This means that this
type is part of their public API and therefore a peer dependency is required
(otherwise, there could be incompatible copies of `Construct` in the node

> runtime).

Author: added clarification:

The removal of the compatibility layer means that now anyone who uses the AWS
CDK will need to explicitly use the `constructs.Construct` type (even for
trivial apps), and therefore it would "make sense" for them to take a dependency
on the `constructs` library.

rethinking this programming model for a future major version. One future
direction is to turn aspects into "reactive" so that they subscribe to tree
events and react in-band during initialization, and not as a separate phase.

Since aspects are no longer part of the base programming model, we need a way to
apply aspects to scopes for AWS CDK apps. To do that, we propose to use the
"trait" pattern, which is becoming a common idiom for offering APIs over CDK
scopes:

```ts
Aspects.of(scope).apply(aspect);
```

The major downside of this change is discoverability, but
`construct.node.applyAspect` is not necessarily more discoverable. We will make
sure documentation is clear.

We will use this opportunity to normalize the tags API and change it to use the same
pattern: `Tags.of(x).add(name, value)`.

### What can we do on 1.x?

- We will migrate the 1.x branch to `Aspects.of(x)` and add a deprecation
  warning to `this.node.applyAspect()`.
- Introduce `Tags.of(x).add()` and add a deprecation warning to `Tag.add()`.

## 03-DEPENDABLE

The `constructs` library supports dependencies through `node.addDependency` like

> in 1.x, but the API to implement `IDependable` has been slightly changed.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
in 1.x, but the API to implement `IDependable` has slightly changed.
```

Author: Fixed

Unit tests sometimes use "incremental tests" for synthesized templates. For
example:

```ts
const stack = new Stack();
const c1 = new MyConstruct(stack, 'c1', { foos: [ 'bar' ] });
expect(stack).toHaveResource('AWS::Resource', {
  Foos: [ 'bar' ]
});

// now add a "foo" and verify that the synthesized template contains two items
c1.addFoo('baz');
expect(stack).toHaveResource('AWS::Resource', {
  Foos: [ 'bar', 'baz' ]
});
```

Since `stage.synth()` (which is called by `expect(stack)`) would reuse the
synthesized output if called twice, we will also need to introduce a
`stage.synth({ force: true })` option. This will be the default behavior when
using `expect(stack)` or `SynthUtils.synth()`.

### Preserving paths and unique IDs using `node.relocate()`

A side effect of adding a `App` parent to "root" stacks is that construct paths
and unique IDs in unit tests will now change. In the above example,
`foo.node.path` will change from `MyFoo` to `Stack/MyFoo`. Additionally, tests
for resources that utilized `node.uniqueId` to generate names will also change
given `uniqueId` is based on the path.

To address this, we propose to introduce a new capability in `constructs` to

> "**relocate**" a scope to a different path. This capability will also be useful

Reviewer 6: Sounds dangerous as a feature available to customers.
Maybe more dangerous than stack mutation during `prepare()`?

Author: Reverted and decided to use `Default` as the name of the root stack, which is already ignored by `uniqueId` yey!

  that implement "prepare" and refer users to a GitHub issue for details and
  consultation.

## 07-NO-SYNTHESIZE

Version 4.x of the `constructs` library does not contain a lifecycle hook for
synthesis as described [above](#the-synthesize-hook-is-no-longer-supported).

### Motivation

The reason this is not available at the base class is because the abstraction
did not "hold water" as the AWS CDK evolved and new CDKs emerged.  In the AWS
CDK, we eventually ended up with a centralized synthesis logic at the
`Stage`-level
([synthesis.ts](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/blob/master/packages/%40aws-cdk/core/lib/private/synthesis.ts)).
The main reason was that we needed to "break" the recursion in various
domain-specific points (e.g. stages, nested stacks) which meant that the generic
logic of "traverse the entire tree and call `synthesize`" did not hold. In
`cdk8s`, the support for [chart
dependencies](https://github.com/awslabs/cdk8s/blob/ef95b9ffce8a39200e028c2fe8acc55a9915161c/packages/cdk8s/src/app.ts#L39)
required that the name of the output manifest will be determined based on the
topologic order at the app level. Here again, the generic approach failed.

> In leu of those failures, we decided that there is no additional value in

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In lieu of those failures, we decided that there is no additional value in
```

Author: Thanks. Fixed.

provided at the base `Construct` class.

### Implications on CDK code base

In the AWS CDK itself, `synthesize()` was used in three locations:

1. `Stack` - creates a CFN template and adds itself to the cloud assembly manifest.
2. `AssetStaging` - stages an asset into the cloud assembly.
3. `TreeMetadata` - creates `tree.json` with information about the construct tree.

For `Stack` and `TreeMetadata`, we will convert the generic `synthesize()`
method to `_synthesizeTemplate()` and `_synthesizeTree()` and will call them
from the centralized synthesis function.

The `AssetStaging` construct does not really need to wait until synthesis in
order to stage the asset. In fact, all the information required already exists
during initialization. The only missing information is the cloud assembly output
directory, and this information is actually known during initialization (we know
this as soon as the CDK app is created). Therefore, the solution for
`AssetStaging` is to move the staging logic to the constructor and use
`Stage.of(this).outdir` to find the output directory of the current stage.

### Implications on end-users

> Participation in synthesis is an "advanced" feature of the CDK framework and se

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Participation in synthesis is an "advanced" feature of the CDK framework and we
```

Author: Fixed

assume most end-users don't use this directly.

If they need "last minute processing", they would likely use `prepare()` (which
is also being [removed](#06-no-prepare-the-prepare-hook-is-no-longer-supported))
but not `synthesize()`.

The use case of emitting arbitrary files into the cloud assembly directory is
weak. The cloud assembly is a well-defined format, and is currently "closed".
There are no extension points that tools can identify. To that end, just writing
files to the cloud assembly output directory does not make tons of sense. Having
said that, it is still possible to do in the same way we plan for

> `AssetStaging`.

Reviewer 6: Would suggest dropping the last sentence. Otherwise it's a cliff hanger.

Author: Modified to include the details.

- **Automatic merge resolution and import organization**: requires research and
  development, not necessarily worth it.

## 10-CONSTRUCT-NODE

> As we realize that we won't be able to release additional major versions of the
> "constructs" in order to ensure interoperability between domains is always
> possible, we need to closely examine the API of this library.

Author: ```suggestion
As we realize we won't be able to release additional major versions of the
"constructs" in order to ensure that interoperability between domains is always
possible, we need to closely examine the API of this library.
```
